Update science review documentation (#649)
MetOffice/CSET: docs/source/contributing/code-review.rst

Science Review
--------------

The science review covers many topics in varying levels of detail. The review
should be tailored depending on if it is for plotting functionality or a
diagnostic. The same ethics and standards apply to the science review as the
technical review and for peer-reviewing journal articles.

As with all reviews it requires an impartial approach to reviewing the code. If
you personally do not like a diagnostic that does not mean it should not be
included in CSET. You are not reviewing how good a diagnostic is. Instead you
are reviewing whether the code does what it is supposed to do, how usable the
addition is, and if there is enough information to allow the correct

> interpretation of the diagnostic by those new to the diagnostic  through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interpretation of the diagnostic by those new to the diagnostic through the
```

> appropriate use of documentation (docstrings, metadata entry to workflow etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appropriate use of documentation (docstrings, workflow metadata entry, etc.)
```

> along with journal references where appropriate. The descriptions of each part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
along with journal references where appropriate.

The descriptions of each part
```

of the science review are put in the order they are recommended to be
considered, not necessarily the order of importance. The idea is to provide
comments in the appropriate parts of the code and an overview as part of the
PR discussion.

CSET Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation should include a short summary statement of what the operator
does, a list of the input parameters, a list of the output, any expected errors
or warnings that it raises and why, notes, references, and clear examples of
the use of the diagnostic. The notes and references are particularly important
for diagnostics and are less of a requirement for plotting operators. The
docstrings of operators that are not prefixed with an underscore are used in
the documentation and so should be considered carefully.

The notes section is the most important section of the documentation for

> diagnostics. The notes section provides the detail about the diagnostic. It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
diagnostics, providing the detail about the diagnostic. It
```

should include a full description of the diagnostic that includes the logic
behind it (including assumptions used) and, where applicable, make use of
appropriate references and equations. The notes description must include how

> to interpret the diagnostic including expected maximum and minimum ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to interpret the diagnostic including expected maximum and minimum ranges.

```

The description can be brief, and if not included it is recommended that a
reviewer asks for a reference pointing to further information if it is
available (e.g. ensure the paper that first describes the diagnostic is cited).
The expected applicability ranges should also be included and cover whether
there are any situations in which the diagnostic will not be sensible to use,

> or if the behaviour changes with resolution. Finally, an interpretation notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or if the behaviour changes with resolution.

Finally, an interpretation notes
```

or caveats section could be beneficial if there is likely to be an
interpretation of the diagnostic that differs from its conventional
interpretation. For example, does the ordering of the routines within a model
timestep impact the interpretation, e.g., CAPE is traditionally interpreted
before precipitation occurs and so if it is output at the end of the timestep
it will have a different interpretation to if it was output at the start of

> the timestep. Throughout the entire notes section you should be checking for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the timestep.

Throughout the entire notes section you should be checking for
```

scientific inaccuracies and whether it can be easily interpreted by another

> scientist. This interpretation could be from just reading it alone
> (an expert in the area) or with sufficient referencing for those less familiar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scientist. This interpretation could be from just reading it as an expert in the area, or with sufficient referencing for those less familiar
```

with the diagnostic. Ideally, the extra reading should be kept to a minimum
and there would be enough for someone to be able to interpret the diagnostic
but know which papers to cite in a journal article.

Recipe Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This type of documentation is particularly important for plotting. The
descriptions provided in the recipe should be sufficient to allow
interpretation of the diagnostic, or plot, for those that have not used/seen it

> before. These descriptions will be included in the output webpage. Therefore,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before.

These descriptions will be included in the output webpage. Therefore,
```

important information to include will be the maximum/minimum ranges, the
interpretation and applicability ranges of the diagnostic. For some plots
(e.g., q-q plots) this should include a general "how to interpret" section
which covers what patterns to look for to identify certain relationships or

> factors. This should mimic those parts from the CSET documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
factors. This should mimic those parts from the CSET documentation.

```

Further applicability considerations should include assumptions and caveats
with the chain of operators used and how that could impact the results, e.g.
impact of re-gridding. And if any operators could break assumptions of the
diagnostics and thus have applicability ranges (e.g. resolution supported by
the diagnostic).

GUI Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The GUI documentation should be checked for usability. Important questions to
ask are whether there is enough information provided that a new user to CSET
could "pick it up" and run it with limited input from the developers. If
specific example files or default file locations are required these should be

> clearly specified in the description. It is also worth considering the parts of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clearly specified in the description.

It is also worth considering the parts of
```
Add paragraph break.

the documentation that would be more beneficial in the "help" or "description"
sections, with the latter being readily visible in the GUI. For example, any
specific input requirements should be in the description, including the
required format.  Any important caveats, assumptions and applicability
information should be mentioned in the GUI extended help text.

Code
~~~~

The code review can overlap with the technical review. However, the main focus
of the science code review is to make sure the scientific logic of the code
follows the principles of the diagnostic. For example, if someone is coding a

> diagnostic based on an equation, is the equation correct? has it been sensibly
> coded (broken down into appropriate terms in necessary)? have the correct
> conditionals been applied? are there any missing terms? are the units correct?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
diagnostic based on an equation:

* Is the equation correct?
* Has it been sensibly coded (broken down into appropriate terms in necessary)?
* Have the correct conditionals been applied?
* Are there any missing terms?
* Are the units correct?

```
Format as a proper list.

> Ultimately, does the code produce what you would expect it to from a science
> Perspective, is it easily interpretable, can it be debugged easily, and are
> there suitable use of comments in the code?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ultimately, does the code produce what you would expect it to from a science
perspective, is it easily understood and debugged, and are there suitable 
comments in the code?
```

Plotting Routines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Questions that should be asked include does the plot make sense (e.g. is the
> vertical coordinate plotted on the y axis; does it improve the interpretation
> if a logarithmic scale is used)? Is the plot easy to interpret or is guidance
> required and is that guidance appropriate? Are the colour bars appropriate and
> mindful of accessibility if a specific colour bar is required? Is the labelling
> present and appropriate? Is the plot legible?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a plotting routine, questions that should be considered include:

* Does the plot make sense (e.g. is the vertical coordinate plotted on the y axis;
  does it improve the interpretation if a logarithmic scale is used)?
* Is the plot easy to interpret or is guidance required and is that guidance appropriate?
* Are the colour bars appropriate and mindful of accessibility if a specific colour bar is required?
* Is the labelling present and appropriate?
* Is the plot legible?
```
Format as a list.

It is also worth considering the parts of the documentation that would be more
beneficial in the "help" or "description" sections, with the latter being
readily visible in the GUI. For example, any specific input requirements should
be in the description, including the required format.  Any important caveats,
assumptions and applicability information should be mentioned in the GUI
extended help text.

Code
~~~~

The code review can overlap with the technical review. However, the main focus
of the science code review is to make sure the scientific logic of the code
follows the principles of the diagnostic. For example, if someone is coding a
diagnostic based on an equation:

* Is the equation correct?
* Has it been sensibly coded (broken down into appropriate terms in necessary)?
* Have the correct conditionals been applied?
* Are there any missing terms?
* Are the units correct?

Ultimately, does the code produce what you would expect it to from a science
perspective, is it easily understood and debugged, and are there suitable
comments in the code?

Plotting Routines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For a plotting routine, specific questions to consider include:

> * Does the plot make sense (e.g. is the vertical coordinate plotted on the y
>   axis; does it improve the interpretation if a logarithmic scale is used)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Does the plot make sense (e.g. is the vertical coordinate plotted on the
  y-axis; does it improve the interpretation if a logarithmic scale is used)?
```
